Updated documentation and example data for 2.0 (#638)
griffithlab/pVACtools: docs/index.rst

   contact
   mailing_list

New in version |version|
------------------------

This version adds the following features, outlined below. Please note that
pVACtools 2.0 is not backwards-compatible and certain changes will break old
workflows.

Breaking changes
________________

> - pVACtools now supports variable epitope lengths. The previous option

Author: ```suggestion
- pVACtools now supports variable epitope lengths for class II prediction algorithms. The previous option
```

  where this yields a hit to a reference proteome are marked accordingly and a
  ``.reference_matches`` file provides more information about the matches.
  This option can be enabled using the ``--run-reference-proteome-similarity``
  option.
- Users may now use the options ``all``, ``all_class_i``, or ``all_class_ii``
  instead of specific prediction algorithms in order to run all prediction
  algorithms, all class I prediction algorithms, or all class II prediction
  algorithms, respectively.
- For successful pVACvector runs, we now output a ``_results.dna.fa`` file
  with the most likely nucleic acid sequence for the predicted vector.

Minor Updates
_____________

- When running pVACseq with a proximal variants VCF we would previously assume
  that your ran VEP with the ``--pick`` option and only process the first transcript
  annotation for a variant. With this update we will now associate the correct
  transcript for a proximal variant with the matching transcript of the main
  somatic variant of interest.
- The ``pvacseq generate_protein_fasta`` command now allows users to provide a
  proximal variants VCF using the ``--phased-proximal-variants-vcf`` option.

> - The ``pvacseq generate_protein_fasta`` command now support multi-sample

Author: ```suggestion
- The ``pvacseq generate_protein_fasta`` command now supports multi-sample
```

  sequence length is now determined by the epitope length(s) to determine the
  flanking sequence length before and after the mutation.
- pVACtools no longer depends on conda. pVACtools remains compatible with
  Python 3.5 and above but users may chose any environment manager to set up
  an appropriate Python environment.
- When using standalone IEDB, pVACtools is now only compatible with IEDB 3.1
  and above. Please see :ref:`install` for instructions on installing the
  latest IEDB version.
- pVACseq is no longer dependent on annotations with the VEP Downstream
  plugin. This dependency has been replaced with the VEP Frameshift plugin.
  This requires changes to your existing VEP installation in order to install
  the Frameshift plugin. Existing VCFs that were previously annotated to work
  with pVACtools 1.5 and below will no longer work with version 2.0 and above
  and will need to be reannotated. Please see our documentation on :ref:`vep`
  for more information.
- The filtered.condensed.tsv report has been removed and replaced with the
  all_epitopes.aggregated.tsv report. We believe that this new report will

>   provide a more comprehensive and easier to understand summary of your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  provide a more useful summary of your
```

>   provide a more comprehensive and easier to understand summary of your

Author: ```suggestion
  provide a more useful summary of your
```

  results. Please see the Output Files sections of each tool for more
  information on this new report.

New features
____________

> - pVACtools now provides ic50 binding affinity percentile rank information, in

Author: ```suggestion
- pVACtools now provides binding affinity percentile rank information, in
```

- Users may now use the options ``all``, ``all_class_i``, or ``all_class_ii``
  instead of specific prediction algorithms in order to run all prediction
  algorithms, all class I prediction algorithms, or all class II prediction
  algorithms, respectively.
- For successful pVACvector runs, we now output a ``_results.dna.fa`` file
  with the most likely nucleic acid sequence for the predicted vector.

Minor Updates
_____________

- When running pVACseq with a proximal variants VCF we would previously assume
  that your ran VEP with the ``--pick`` option and only process the first transcript
  annotation for a variant. With this update we will now associate the correct
  transcript for a proximal variant with the matching transcript of the main
  somatic variant of interest.
- The ``pvacseq generate_protein_fasta`` command now allows users to provide a
  proximal variants VCF using the ``--phased-proximal-variants-vcf`` option.
- The ``pvacseq generate_protein_fasta`` command now supports multi-sample
  VCFs. Users may use the ``--sample-name`` to provide the sample name of the
  sample they wish to process.
- pVACseq and pVACfuse would previously error out if the intermediate TSV

>   while parsed from the input would be empty. In 2.0 the tool will no longer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   parsed from the input was empty. In 2.0 the tool will no longer
```

  error out but exit with an appropriate message.
- pVACvector would previously error out when no valid path was found. In 2.0
  pVACvector will not longer error out but exit with an appropriate message.
- We now set consistent file permissions on all output files.
- We've updated our license to BSD 3-Cause Clear. Please note that the

>   individual licenses of our dependend tools remain in place. These can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  individual licenses of our dependent tools remain in place. These can be
```
